Stephen have enough credits he's done it
welcome to the ipfs Bifrost gateway as a
service product eyes
let's run ipfs really well for lots of
users regularly weekly call on the
agenda today we have a TV okay our
check-in we don't need to spend too much
time on that let me just share my screen
this book - can you see a thing what we
call we've got em burns can you do some
okay uh q3 estimates zeros is fine it's
just we just need to need the report in
looks like I'm sure I can pull that up
yeah everything is done it'd be nice to
spend a little bit more time going
through this and making sure that we're
focusing on the most important things
but I think we should do that with
Adrian and Hector present so I'm not
going to spend any more of this cool
time on that but I would like to talk to
Michael burns about the ewr nodes G what
what's going on Michael burns gotta find
that mute but so I don't know what like
the root cause of that problem was yeah
I don't know if this was like weird GC
or performance issues just bubbling up
and ewr happened to be like it just
happened to be it's bad day and so he
had the floor issues
what was the well did we see that was
wrong with it okay just
he said you it's like it's in a sorry
state
yeah so let's see originally it was this
space filled up and not clear why that
didn't alert more mildly at us but bank
1wr
was just like unresponsive so couldn't
get him to SSH SSH yesterday couldn't
kind of recover via the console so not
not sure what went amiss there went awry
there but it was sad easily solved by
rebuilding it
so destroy it and rebuild it in
terraform which revealed that we are mid
migration which is kind of the worst
place in the world to be so terraform
has a different view of the world and
the config then nginx or then instable
and so when building nginx it writes an
invalid config file that config file
fails when you try and restart the
daemon that causes user data fail that
causes terraform to fail and like the
box is just in a sad statement so you go
massage it and get some things over can
we let's easily yeah easily done by hand
but trying to get those out of sync
trying to remove all the logic from
terraform so that nginx is just handled
by ansible and there's not like a split
brain situation
strongly agree that we are not in the
best position right now it is surprising
to me that the Terra forms can't be run
right now but my understanding is we've
run you said the Terra forms run but
there's an error from the used a script
which means their forms though correct
so it's it is not able to deploy the
certs that the nginx config file
mentions and so you can't restart the
service so we partly migrated off of it
we just left terraform in its add state
should not have let it be there and it
would be nice if we could wire up a
nightly to catch that a little earlier
but I'm Midway fixing and should be half
of the PR for that up within the hour
it's just deleting stuff from terraform
basically nice and then the process with
the run tariffs or
then run animals and happiness precisely
oh it might still be a two-step process
for a little bit yeah eventually
terraform will fire Bob ansible great
that's progress in the meantime the ewr
know it is still not reporting there's
also no traffic being routed to it
because ever never gets installed
because user data fails it's just so far
messages we have limited capacity soon
so I will go poke at it
I believe net data was streaming in last
night when I called uncle yeah there is
at least I'm missing monitoring alert
there as well to have Marcus you
mentioned this and I didn't dig into
what that code actually looked like but
file coin handles this as part of its
user data script which seems like yes
but dope way to do it yes so any time
the user data fails for any reason
there's a trap in the batch script that
will then fire off a alert to the
previous alert Andrew so any time and no
doesn't come online in the unified least
so we don't out that we would be able to
at least detect that a node failed to
deploy that's super handy and presumably
I can just go copy some bash and wire
that up precisely yeah okay so all of a
WR is on Michael Burns it's plate is
that okay Michael Burns
yep I can get those up in short order
okay that seems like a high priority
because we're seeing alerts memory use
like 5% of RAM available on the one
remaining machine and it's a pretty busy
machine gotcha I will type even faster
no it's not my objective mother this
should be the priority okay so then the
thing that has happened recently is we
have now pinned all of the IP FS hosted
sites to all the gateways except for the
ewr ones which as discussed it hasn't
been possible yet but this hasn't been
the Magic Bullet to fix all our the
sporadic slowness of certain sites
getting access to although I'm
interested to keep watching it but it
should definitely improve it but the
things that are now impacting it are
having a more proactive node failover
strategy for Gateway nodes so I think
this morning AMS one was being slow and
Alan sure was reporting that he couldn't
load file he could load up your Vesta IO
which seems like the next most important
problem to souls if we want to actually
get decent response times and
reliability from these nodes
I've raised the issue for it but I was
wondering if you guys having had any
thoughts about it to make sure that my
assessment is correct with we're relying
on bird bgp and dns to do a kind of
passive failover when a machine
completely dies like the bird
it's the third thing third demon has to
fail for the thing to be taken out and
then there's still a kind of latency of
a few minutes for the DNS they stopped
routing traffic is that correct yep yeah
I
yes it would be potentially a priority
to deliver the redesign as in have the
nginx and bird daemon coupled on one
machine and then I think I think some
people have suggested that having the
the nodes upstream of those so that we
can at least have like some sort of
back-end checks and fail overs so I
think right now yeah the idea that bird
is our only health check is a big flaw
and probably contributes to a lot of our
issues cool totally agree I will raise
one historical note before we rebuilt
the gateways on packet little less than
a year ago we had the model of one front
end box running bird and nginx and then
a back end box that did ipfs and from
that discussion we wanted to move to
open resti so that we could have proper
active health checks because we were
having the failure mode where ipfs would
wedge but nginx would not be aware of it
and so would keep like sending traffic
on to a dead box easily fixed we kind of
we architected to solve that problem and
obviously uncovered other problems but
having proper health checks that can
handle like backends and failover is
like that needs to be part of the the
fix I guess at this point what would
prompt a health check look like my my
suggestion was like a type EFS get
requests for the empty directory seems
pretty light I want Steven is that a
reasonable health check at this point do
we have anything more satisfactory or is
that a good one sorry is everything else
it's that's okay we're talking about
useful health checks that an IP FS demon
is in a functional state so so the nginx
can stop routing traffic to a stock like
BFS process and a 500 machine trying to
fix the foul no yeah there's no C
because I was gonna say try and get the
empty directory no in all as for the
empty directory so it depends what
you're trying to check if you just try
to check to see is the idea of festered
even responding yeah that's probably
fine you can probably also just like
fetch the version or something like that
although that won't go to block store if
you think both go to the block circuit
of caching everywhere but I think these
actually just like forced to go through
bit swamp occasionally yep and like at
the time of one machine fetch timing of
the Machine yeah and you actually really
want like very so if you just want to
test it like is this than you're
responding um we need a thing at the
level of like nginx can make a request
or open resti or something can hit an
HTTP endpoint and say yep the thing says
it's responding so so you like roll no
no once again to the curse no yeah you
can curl API is that v-0 such a person
yeah yeah that is that that won't tell
us much other than like okay the daemon
process is funding yes the investors
Riley but it said depends what you want
they if you want if the block stores
responding that from the level of we
want they get get requests for data to
it so this is on a gateway node its
fronted by nginx it's high traffic and
we keep saying I'd give us demons
getting kind of ultimately frozen up or
unresponsive maybe that they are
responsible is I think near yes I would
yeah we don't have the answers failure
okay
isn't like the first enough not serving
data that they have frozen up just not
surfing things you're exactly with a way
to have that level of granularity
that I'm assuming it's frozen up not
sort of things they have locally cached
which means that yeah the solution is
you that you find out the Machine you
add a files up if you try to fetch on
the first machine I told you actually
piping dated through otherwise it's like
there's not that much like so sorry we
don't really even happening many locks
okay so there is one potential problem
here maybe you find out a file
descriptor somewhere or about nginx
refuses to open more than certain number
of connections like that it's like
literally it's not responding to
versions and that's a big issue
yeah that's why nginx handles that kind
of stuff yeah and that's on your
distance that you see a machine that's
locked up test version yes and the empty
directory and then like to see what
actually happens okay
that as a first approximation will work
I think we're gonna go in to get into
sadness with hitting nodes that GC and
so like the daemon is responding but
they're not serving up any useful data
and so yeah this step forward happening
at the perfect solution that maybe M can
you restate your concern so a GC is
because they olds keep responding to
requests G does D sitting freeze the
world
Stephen a GC does freeze the world so I
can't do it get a request what EC is in
progress
sort of so GTR GC freezes the does it
trees that I don't think it no it does
not freeze gets in life freezes it's
okay but this may block bits watt from
writing to the data store I think yep so
like it means like you already have the
date I think you were trying if you
don't have it I think you month okay
first collision but yeah this garbage
collection
is there any benefit of running it on
more frequent basis so that it's doing
less so that it speeds faster and uses
less resources if you guess he
frequently it'll complete faster you can
also just not run it so another way to
do missus you literally just delete
everything and regrade the repo or
snapshot and restore from snapshot down
that should just magically in most cases
yeah that was something that I wondered
about for sure if we can just use some
garbage collection tuning it seems like
it doesn't run that frequently and then
when it does run it just actually frees
up the box we get a out of memory error
on AMS nothing so it could be due to do
that kind of thing right if they're if
you're the you see Q gets too too large
or everything yeah yeah well it's not a
to see a piece of crap the way QC works
is it locks entire datastore which means
we're doing how morgan has to walk so
like the although in this case this is a
funky case it's the case for like we
don't have anything actually is there
anything pinned on these game events or
not so there is now okay so that would
make GC slightly so exact used to walk
that data first and then walk the
datastore and figure out what's knocking
that data all right just degenerate like
literally delete a directory would be
faster the thing that's changed on the
gateways recently is because we're
seeing slow slow response times for
content that is on cluster even though
we're trying to maintain connections to
cluster we're regular things just slow
response times so we have deliberately
pinned all of the pre PL websites and
the file coin pretty brown use to the
gateways which and in total that's about
20 gigabytes of content including
destroyed the FSBO
which is the lion's share of the highs
yes so that will make GC took a bit
longer because like
Kurt is the current GC so if you let see
how it's written
one second one check we couldn't look we
can pause this for like there's an issue
that we can go through this but yeah GC
does basically is it reads in all day -
that's it actually reads all the data
off the desk existed traversal and we
don't we don't cache then once it's done
that it walks through everything in the
data store but just actually read ahead
and deletes everything that's not like
within the set of things it's already
read so there's reason some things to
keep then reads instead of thing X it
has if it's not some things to keep it
clean looks like if you have a few
things to keep it's been much faster
actually reading all the data a second
user putting a lot of things GS you see
will slow down if you have any on your
team it is and with experience with
conversations you never see a situation
are complaining about this yeah if you
do you see is not scalable are you
telling us that your team does not have
benefits for this no it's also it
doesn't matter that much for a lot of
the work package well first of all like
there's no my team yep really basically
not there is packed a bit of steam and
there's your team and has not really
followed a package managers because
actually you just need to be able to it
and retrieve files quickly they don't
really need to GC that much like it's
somewhat important but like actually a
lot of actors want to keep old packages
like running activist infrastructure
people do care about like GC and all
these like higher like bigger system
issues yep okay I see from the point of
view of the Gateway endeavor like with a
P whatever p0 people on endeavor so I
might have to pull rank on that at some
point but because we don't have
bandwidth is superb bandwidth
constrained right now it's not like this
like
if you asked if I seemed to make some
publicity I seems to say well yep yeah
yeah understood she's sorry back but
this what it really is not it's like
there's when you look at the actual
roster it's I think it's calling me and
maybe Eden is okay that's okay we can we
will have to hobble along with the TC as
it exists now we will we will try and
raise it up the list of priorities and
it's kind of on Adrian best if he has
time to look at it
Hector is very limited and is going part
time soon anywho okay let's put a pin in
that so the outcomes of that are because
we are now telling things on the gateway
GC is now costing us more in terms of
RAM RAM and CPU time when it does a TC
so we may trigger GCS GC more
proactively
so that its operating rather on a full
repo but wouldn't we just wouldn't we
just shrink down the high-water mark
like the max storage
Feli rather than my product are we
trading it just give it a small earth
mix that'll help a bit I don't think
that'll hook to much like sea ice it'll
make it go faster but if you're putting
20 gigabytes that means it has to read
20 gigabytes off the disk and
deserialize 20 bytes of stuff and then
you have to deserialize it like
understand it so the followings that's
why we were a large portion of the time
is doing the rest of it is just like
walking through the links that's not
that bad yeah okay
we actually are you using badger or are
you using that of us let's say we're
using flat okay well yeah so there's a
lot more sometimes properly reading the
20 gigabytes of thin stuff how long does
it take usually that number to my
fingertips I can dig into less always an
issue for it and maybe we can just
Thresh out what are the best strategy
for us in the short term and then longer
term is and
the simple strategy is just like
snapshot the red boat when it's in a
good state didn't delete everything so
like btrfs or any snap something or just
copy things if you have no space in this
know then that will make things a lot
faster it's a good point yeah thanks for
that tip honestly it I I think that they
could definitely be aligned to pursue
sure seems relatively low impact okay
that's probably enough for GC but it is
different in issues yeah so there was
general support for readers owning our
gateway node failover strategy but mr.
Burnes added the 20 that we've done this
once already so we should learn from the
mistakes of history so I guess it'd be
useful mr. pendrick's you could add that
notes to the issue just on the boy sure
the point force Reapers
but maybe I guess focus on the ewr nodes
first someone has added oil coin proof
params and IP get downloaded update to
this list okay so this this is some
interesting context to think for the
Gateway team so was the last week it was
a while I was on holiday and the five
point team I was having problems
downloading proof parameters from the
Gateway they were seeing the download it
would start but then it was gonna taper
off to like you know zero bytes being
transferred people would cancel so
they're getting frustrated so they
decided to try using IP yet so they
would be able to to to download the
proof parameters without involving the
Gateway and what was interesting about
that
those that got it working there were
some problems but those that got it
working still had major problems with
downloading's of crews grounders so some
people reported in a 1.5 gigabyte file
it would take two and a half hours or or
more and they would see the same
behavior of the download tapering off
and then starting again so this is a
little bit of anecdotal / evidence that
there's potentially some of the issues
that we've been facing on the Gateway
are not unique to the Gateway and are
more global to the I feel fast Network
so just in context for some of the
things that we've been seeing aren't
necessarily remedied by using a direct
connection or by bypassing the Gateway
yep I think my understanding of this is
that there there was some we've got
patches into the Gateway nodes and we
have DHT boosters but correct me if I'm
wrong Steven but we sort of we know that
there are still performance issues with
the DHT and really yes yeah so we we
know if we know for sure that like we
are not out of the woods these are the
you're not even close
no it's slightly less terrible yep like
at the moment we're closing that we have
a lot of fixes these enable hope we're
not closing it like we are still now
working on the chest and version of
Church you like it analyzes fixes in
terms of you yep
yeah exactly that like we we have
identified this problem but then I we've
gone we've gone big solution to it and
so the fixes are now at the mercy of the
testing procedure and the new release
plan is managed that's something yeah
the release plan is the reese plan is
great I mean like the sticking to it yes
enacting the release one
sweet okay we have no minutes left does
anyone have anything else they want to
talk about I just wanted to say that my
main area of interest from the from
Petra's planning document seems to be
around service levels and indicators and
I just want to point out that I'm still
quite blocked on making any progress on
that because we still don't have a lot
of great metrics that are coming in so
like one blocker is definitely the yes
exporter thing so I just want to make
sure that that's still a prioritized
thing because I like to be able to have
a success rate with a gateway but
currently that's that's impossible with
metadata we have attached to our net
data metrics remind me why it's
impossible with the current data because
there's there's only the only metadata
or like labels that are that are
associated with those status codes is
actually there there's barely any so you
get a you you can see that we have like
say for example of four nine nine code
but there's no other information that is
relevant to it so we don't have like
what the request path is refer like any
of that sort of stuff so you have four
four nine nine are a big potential
source of like people are having
problems but because it could be
anything we have no way of trying to
make sense of what those four nine nines
mean without some more relevant labels
attached to it so yes exporter would
export all the fields that we currently
see in our law and yes or in Habana
which wouldn't give us a lot more
options so like be a duplicate and make
sense of the four 9/9 which is critical
for our success rate indicator
thankee it's still important nobody is
looking at it right now sign that right
but I'm not sure it's always okay how
long how much more if we caught up
George is he easy off-boarding I
remember October okay it's critical for
SLO s which are critical for our
incident reporting exactly and as I say
that that also blocks incident or being
able to declare a incident I made a
comment on that on that issue and I
think it's yeah that's true we only have
black box metrics still and that's like
extremely scary that's you want to have
some indicators that are actually
pointing to some you know precise data
that that we have okay that's cool a
quick question for Steven so the
gateways are currently running a fun job
to reconnect to cluster nodes every
minute I'm just wondering if there is
there is that a good idea
it it shouldn't break anything so if
you're already connected to that node
it's literally it's a no op but it does
so your Isis through the passes through
a wait when you do call to connect as
through this kind of school it's not
this like fixed hard-coded 100 school
that it passes through the connection
manager and what I'm not clear about is
what happens inside the connection
manager with that score does it then
reset the score back to 100 if it you
know it adds it so no no no I'm sorry
it so these scores are tapped such a
tags yeah that has a unique tag so that
yeah
he says let's correct that tag is only
ever up set to 100 or zero yeah you
spent to 100 not set so it doesn't
matter
I gotcha so just with continually cuz
the tag is user connect and the value is
100 and if I keep calling that it's
always 100 and it can never be anything
other than 100 yes okay good tonight
all right we're out of time we're four
minutes over if anyone has any questions
you can say now but it's times up
alright there's so much more to talk
about these meetings are too short at 30
minutes keeps us from see you later
I